In your experience as a data engineer,
you've likely combined data sources,
filter them, merge them, and more.
When you performed these actions in the past,
you were likely working with a fixed set of data in batches.
Many traditional data stores such as PostgreSQL and
MySQL offer this type of functionality as part of the query language.
For example, you might use a join in SQL to
combine data sources or where clause to filter data.
While it's great that traditional data stores provide this functionality,
we have to rerun the query every time we want the result updated.
Stream processing applications never stop running.
How do you join a dataset that is
evolving while you're actually performing a calculation?
How do you filter a dataset that's changing as your code runs?
Kafka provides us no functionality to help us with these problems out of the box.
This is where stream processing frameworks come into play.
In the following sections,
we'll see how we can accomplish this functionality on constantly evolving streams.